<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="overview">
    <title>Overview</title>
    <prolog>
        <data name="sidebar_position" value="1"/>
    </prolog>
    <body>
        <p>The bootloader employs several different boot-up methods to augment the boot-up behavior.
            Currently, the bootloader supports two primary boot modes:</p>
        <ul>
            <li><p>Normal Mode(refer to "normal_boot.md")</p></li>
            <li><p>Mass Storage Device (MSD) Update Mode(refer to
                    "mass_storage_device_updates.md")</p></li>
        </ul>
        <p>Normal mode, as the name would imply, is the default boot mode in which the bootloader
            simply loads the main application.</p>
        <p>Mass Storage Device Update mode is a special boot mode in which the board enters an
            update state where the board appears as a mass storage device to a host PC device. In
            this mode, the bootloader is capable of receiving and flashing a new binary by copying
            that binary to the board as one would for a regular USB storage device.</p>
        <p>More information on each of these modes can be found in the subsequent sections of this
            document.</p>
    </body>
    <topic id="how-is-boot-mode-determined">
        <title>How is boot mode determined?</title>
        <body>
            <p>To determine the boot mode, the bootloader checks several different boot flags, which
                are set based on various conditions.</p>
            <p>For each different boot mode (excluding Normal boot, which is taken by default),
                there is a different corresponding boot flag. Boot flag gets set depending on the
                boot mode in question and the platform being used. On the SLN-TLHMI-IOT, for
                example, the MSD boot flag is set when the <codeph>SW0</codeph> button is held
                during bootup.</p>
        </body>
    </topic>
</topic>
