<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="display-manager">
    <title>Display manager</title>
    <body>
        <p>Display manager manages the display HAL devices that can be registered into the
            system.</p>
    </body>
    <topic id="apis">
        <title>APIs</title>
        <body/>
        <topic id="fwk-displaymanager-init">
            <title>FWK_DisplayManager_Init</title>
            <body>
                <codeblock xml:space="preserve" outputclass="c">/**
 * @brief Init internal structures for display manager.
 * @return int Return 0 if the init process was successful
 */
int FWK_DisplayManager_Init();</codeblock>
            </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="fwk-displaymanager-deviceregister">
            <title>FWK_DisplayManager_DeviceRegister</title>
            <body>
                <codeblock xml:space="preserve" outputclass="c">/**
 * @brief Register a display device. All display devices need to be registered before FWK_DisplayManager_Start is
 * called.
 * @param dev Pointer to a display device structure
 * @return int Return 0 if registration was successful
 */
int FWK_DisplayManager_DeviceRegister(display_dev_t *dev);</codeblock>
            </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="fwk-displaymanager-start">
            <title>FWK_DisplayManager_Start</title>
            <body>
                <codeblock xml:space="preserve" outputclass="c">/**
 * @brief Spawn Display manager task which will call init/start for all registered display devices. Will start the flow
 * to recive frames from the camera.
 * @return int Return 0 if starting was successful
 */
int FWK_DisplayManager_Start();</codeblock>
            </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="fwk-displaymanager-deinit">
            <title>FWK_DisplayManager_Deinit</title>
            <body>
                <codeblock xml:space="preserve" outputclass="c">/**
 * @brief Init internal structures for display manager.
 * @return int Return 0 if the init process was successful
 */
int FWK_DisplayManager_Deinit();</codeblock>
                <codeblock xml:space="preserve">Calling this function is unnecessary in most applications and must be used with caution.</codeblock>
            </body>
        </topic>
    </topic>
</topic>
